README.md, before:

# AI Startup Analyst Backend

FastAPI backend that orchestrates the AI startup analyst workflow described in the
specification. The implementation keeps the architecture modular so that Google
Cloud services (Firestore, Storage, Document AI, Gemini) can be wired in where
available, while providing local fallbacks so the API can run in development
without external dependencies.

## Features

- Upload PDFs/audio/video pitch materials and create a new deal entry.
- Generate memo drafts using configurable weightings with regeneration support.
- Persist deal state in Firestore or in-memory storage when Firestore is not
  available.
- Store memo DOCX artefacts and original uploads in a bucket-like directory.
- Download generated documents and original pitch decks.
- Manage founder outreach invites and persist founder chat transcripts.

## Project structure

```
app/
├── api/               # FastAPI routes
├── dependencies.py    # Dependency wiring (Firestore/Storage/etc.)
├── main.py            # FastAPI application factory
├── models/            # Pydantic representations of deal documents
└── services/          # Domain services (storage, memo generation, etc.)
```

## Getting started

1. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

   > Optional: install the Google Cloud libraries (`google-cloud-firestore`,
   > `google-cloud-storage`, `google-cloud-documentai`, `google-cloud-aiplatform`)
   > when you are ready to connect to production infrastructure.

2. **Configure environment**

   Copy the provided `.env` file and adjust the values to match your deployment
   environment (project IDs, bucket names, invite URLs, etc.). The application
   automatically loads the `.env` file on startup.

   ```dotenv
   APP_ENV=development
   API_TITLE="AI Startup Analyst"
   DEBUG=False
   GCP_PROJECT_ID=hackathon-472304
   GCP_LOCATION=us-central1
   STORAGE_BUCKET=investment_memo_ai
   GOOGLE_API_KEY=AIzaSyCG_RaIGoBFlAMH89c_97LUpvVGOlbiO-w
   GOOGLE_SEARCH_ENGINE_ID=27a87949557e54a04
   ```

   Replace any project-specific secrets (service account paths, Document AI
   processor IDs, invite base URLs, etc.) before running the backend.

3. **Run the server**

   ```bash
   uvicorn app.main:app --reload
   ```

   The service exposes the documented endpoints such as `POST /upload`,
   `POST /generate_memo/{deal_id}`, and `GET /deals`.

4. **Configure Google Cloud (optional)**

   - Ensure `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` is set and the respective APIs are
     enabled.
   - Replace the heuristic memo generation logic inside
     `app/services/memo_generator.py` with calls to Gemini 2.5 via Vertex AI.
   - Replace the local storage implementation in `StorageService` with GCS
     integration.

## Testing the workflow

1. Upload a sample PDF (or any file) via `POST /upload` to create a new deal.
2. Regenerate the memo with different weightings using
   `POST /generate_memo/{deal_id}`.
3. Fetch the memo using `GET /deals/{deal_id}` or download the artefacts using
   the dedicated download endpoints.
4. Issue a founder invite via `POST /deals/{deal_id}/founder_invite` and append
   chat transcripts with `POST /deals/{deal_id}/founder_chat`.

The service responses follow the Firestore document schema shared in the
original requirements to ease downstream integration.

Commit message:

Enforce imageless Document AI processing

README.md, after:

# AI Startup Analyst Backend

FastAPI backend that orchestrates the AI startup analyst workflow described in the
specification. The implementation keeps the architecture modular so that Google
Cloud services (Firestore, Storage, Document AI, Gemini) can be wired in where
available.

## Features

- Upload PDFs/audio/video pitch materials and create a new deal entry with
  Google Document AI driven text extraction and startup analysis metadata.
- Generate memo drafts using configurable weightings with regeneration support.
- Persist deal state in Firestore or in-memory storage when Firestore is not
  available.
- Store memo DOCX artefacts and original uploads in Google Cloud Storage.
- Download generated documents and original pitch decks.
- Manage founder outreach invites and persist founder chat transcripts.

## Project structure

```
app/
├── api/               # FastAPI routes
├── dependencies.py    # Dependency wiring (Firestore/Storage/etc.)
├── main.py            # FastAPI application factory
├── models/            # Pydantic representations of deal documents
└── services/          # Domain services (storage, memo generation, etc.)
```

## Getting started

1. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

   > Optional: install the additional Google Cloud libraries (`google-cloud-firestore`,
   > `google-cloud-aiplatform`) when you are ready to connect to production
   > infrastructure.

2. **Configure environment**

   Copy the provided `.env` file and adjust the values to match your deployment
   environment (project IDs, bucket names, invite URLs, etc.). The application
   automatically loads the `.env` file on startup.

   ```dotenv
   APP_ENV=development
   API_TITLE="AI Startup Analyst"
   DEBUG=False
   GCP_PROJECT_ID=hackathon-472304
   GCP_LOCATION=us-central1
   GCS_BUCKET_NAME=investment_memo_ai
   GOOGLE_API_KEY=AIzaSyCG_RaIGoBFlAMH89c_97LUpvVGOlbiO-w
   GOOGLE_SEARCH_ENGINE_ID=27a87949557e54a04
   ```

   Replace any project-specific secrets (service account paths, Document AI
   processor IDs, invite base URLs, etc.) before running the backend. The upload
   workflow now requires a configured Document AI processor and will raise an
   error on startup if `DOCUMENT_AI_PROCESSOR`, `GCP_PROJECT_ID`, or
   `GCP_LOCATION` are missing.

3. **Configure Google Document AI**

   Ensure the processor referenced by `DOCUMENT_AI_PROCESSOR` is deployed in the
   target project/location and that the service account has the
   `documentai.processor.use` permission. The backend calls
   `DocumentProcessorServiceClient.process_document` for every upload and
   persists the extracted text together with structured page/entity metadata.

4. **Run the server**

   ```bash
   uvicorn app.main:app --reload
   ```

   The service exposes the documented endpoints such as `POST /upload`,
   `POST /generate_memo/{deal_id}`, and `GET /deals`.

5. **Configure Google Cloud (optional)**

   - Ensure `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` is set, the respective APIs are
     enabled, and the configured storage bucket exists.
   - Replace the heuristic memo generation logic inside
     `app/services/memo_generator.py` with calls to Gemini 2.5 via Vertex AI.

## Testing the workflow

1. Upload a sample PDF (or any file) via `POST /upload` to create a new deal.
2. Regenerate the memo with different weightings using
   `POST /generate_memo/{deal_id}`.
3. Fetch the memo using `GET /deals/{deal_id}` or download the artefacts using
   the dedicated download endpoints.
4. Issue a founder invite via `POST /deals/{deal_id}/founder_invite` and append
   chat transcripts with `POST /deals/{deal_id}/founder_chat`.

The service responses follow the Firestore document schema shared in the
original requirements to ease downstream integration.
